Welcome everyone to part to touch generation with Python and Cara's.
So for this lecture we're going to show you how to create the TAM based model.
But before we do that we want to split the data into features and labels.
So we're going to have our X features which is the first N-words of the sequence and then we'll have
our white label which is the very next word after that entire sequence.
Once you've done that we'll be able to fit the model on that feature to predict the next word in the
sequence.
OK let's jump to the notebook.
OK so here we are where we left off last time with these actual sequences in a matrix format.
What I want to do is perform a train test split and the train display is going to go ahead and separate
these first columns as features.
And then this last column as the target we want to predict.
So we're going to do a couple of things here.
We'll say from Kurus dot utils import to categorical.
And again we're going to then take our sequences and grab everything but the last words.
So we'll say for all rows starting from the very beginning.
Grab everything but that very last column.
So again if I take a look at what this means.
Notice we have 14 24 9 6 5 here that's exactly we have here on the end.
So essentially grabbing for every row all the columns except the very last column.
That's what the slice notation is doing with no pie.
So these are the first X-amount of words of your sequence length.
In this case we happened to choose a sequence length 25.
Again that's something you can edit as you go along and play this yourself.
But here in this case we have the first twenty five words and the very last word of these sequences
essentially is going to be that last column.
So we're going to say OK grab all the rows and I'll just grab that last column.
So that is 24 9 6 5 5 and so on.
So notice what the values are here are the original sequences 24 9 6 5 and so on.
And then 2 2 7 0 9 26 and here we have 2 2 7 9 26 so hopefully that's clear that now I can simply say
X are my features those first X-amount of words.
And then the label is what I'm looking for.
So in this case that very last word and what I'm going to do is then change that y into a two categorical.
So I'll say why is equal to two categorical Y.
And then the number of classes is simply the vocabulary size we discussed earlier plus one because of
the way Keres padding works.
It needs an extra one to hold eight zero.
OK so we passed that into two categorical and then to set our sequence length we simply asked well what
was the shape of x.
Index 1.
So if I take a look at the shape of my features right now it's eleven thousand three hundred sixty eight.
That means I have 11000 368 sequences.
So those were essentially those shifted 25 words sentences and then how many words are in each sentence
will I know it's 25.
So that means my sequence length is this right here 25.
So the reason we said it using X thought shape is that where you can later come back up here and then
play around with the 2005 value if you come back up here.
Remember we chose our training length to be 25 plus one.
That one we're going to predict.
So if you play around with that value that should be taken care of automatically as you come down here
and then play around the shape.
So now I have my sequence length expected is 25 predict the very next word after those 25 words.
Now that we've organized our data and done a trained split on the data it's time to actually create
the model.
And for this we're simply going to say from cars that models import sequential and then from carious
that lawyers import and we'll be importing a dense layer in Ellis T.M. layer to the all the sequences
and in embedding layer to deal with the vocabulary.
And we're going to functionals this so I'll say T.F. we'll call it create model and it takes in a vocabulary
size as well as that sequence length that we just defined earlier.
Well start off as we always do creating an instance of that sequential model and then we will add to
this model.
So we'll say embedding and we'll pasan a vocabulary size passen the sequence length.
In fact we can just pasand what we passed and their sequence length.
And then again we're going to define that the input length is equal to the sequence length.
So it's actually going on here for this embedding is we're defining an input dimension for the embedding
which is the entirety of the vocabulary.
We're also defining the output dimension which is just the sequence length.
And then we're defining the input length which is also equal to the sequence length.
OK.
So again that's what the embedding is doing and if front to figure out more about it it's really all
it's doing here is it turns positive integers or indexes into a dense vectors of a fixed size.
So essentially transforming something like this into this fixed size based vocabulary.
And this has to be the first layer in the model OK.
And you can see more examples of all this embedding essentially just allowing us to deal of that text
data.
OK so we have the imbedding and now we can add in some LACMA units to actually be trained on the sequence.
So at Ellis T.M. and that LACMA you decide how many neurons are going to go in there or how many units.
Again no right answer here but it's usually a good idea to make some sort of multiple off of your sequence
length.
So I'm going to go and go a little larger on this or just for the purposes of video.
I'll go 150.
But we provided some models are trained with more neurons.
Again the more neurons we add here it's going to take slightly longer to train.
So let's just go with two acts or sequence length so 15.
And in fact if you really wanted to you could simply find this based off your sequence length something
like sequence sequence length times 2 or something like that for the number of neurons.
It's really up to you.
We'll decide on 15 year olds.
This will give us the best results but it should train a lot faster.
And then we're going to ask for the return sequences to be true.
And then we can add in another layer of elist T.M. again choosing some out of neurons for that one.
And then at the end we're going to add in.
But then Slayer this one you probably want to be a little larger but we'll go ahead and do 50 this network
itself probably will give you such great results since it's a little smaller but they also want to take
forever to train.
In general it's going to take a really long time to train.
I think the one we provide you took about three hours to train.
So we have that's activation rectified linear unit at the very end.
We want to translate this into a vocabulary word because it's just going to spit out a number.
So we want a dense network of our vocabulary size where the activation is soft Max and the less we need
to do here is simply say model and we're going to compile this.
We're going to give a loss of categorical cross entropy categorical underscore cross entropy.
Be careful not to make a typo here it's really easy to do so.
And basically that means we're treating each vocabulary word as its own individual category.
When you add the final optimizer leaves the atom optimizer and then for metrics will use accuracy.
Then once that's done go ahead and give a summary of your model such a print out a little summary and
then return your model.
So we have a create model function.
Let's go ahead to make sure we passed it incorrectly.
So we'll say create model and we'll pass in our vocabulary size that we define earlier.
Remember this vocabulary size we just define appear previously using the length of the word counts.
So how many unique words are there.
So 2 7 0 9 that particular case because of the way the embedding works with padding that we'll see later
on for Pead sequences.
We actually need to add one more space to essentially hold a zero.
So we're going to see if we'll cover size plus one and then we're going to pasan our sequence length.
And this is going to be our model.
Go ahead and run this and make sure you get this summary output.
If you got an error here it probably means you made a typo somewhere along here.
In that case just go ahead and copy the function we created for you in the notebooks.
But really easy to make a typo especially on this compile line.
But if you saw the summary then you are good to go.
OK.
So coming up next we're going to generate new text.
So the last thing to do here is actually train and fit our model.
So what we do is we're going to save from pixel
import dump Khama load that's going to allow us to actually save the file and then load it up later
on.
So we're going to say from pickle import dump load and then say model that fit are going to fit on our
XT data in our y data here here we'll say batch size and then we'll say.
The amount of epoxy we want to train for.
I'll go ahead and just train for two epochs in this video and then say verbose is equal to one.
So explain what's going on here.
Now previously I was using the terms train test split it wasn't really a train split it was actually
features labels split.
So I apologize for using those words but essentially we have X and Y we don't truly have a train to
split with testate.
Because there's nothing to Testament's there's kind of no right answer as far as what text generated
should look like.
Instead we are really just texting or testing these features against the predicted label the batch size
is how many sequences you want to passen at a time.
You don't want to pasan everything at a time.
Otherwise the neural network won't be able to handle that.
So you only want to pass on a certain amount of sequences.
128 was a value that I kind of just chose arbitrarily and worked well for me.
E POCs to you POCs is not going to be nearly enough to generate any text that makes sense so you may
just see a bunch of the most common words like the other repeated.
But go ahead and treat it on a little bit of pocks just so you can tell that it worked or not and then
verbose one is just going to be the output port.
Let's go with this.
Make sure it runs like this.
Mostly just to check if it runs.
You should probably be training for at least like 200 POCs to get something that's reasonable.
So if you're able to run this and this should be good.
Again our accuracy is absolutely horrible which makes sense.
Right now it's probably just predicting the word to be the most common word but once done training especially
if you trained for a really long time you're going to want to save this so you're going to want to take
the model and save it and say something like my underscore Moby-Dick model thought age 5.
So that saves the model but the other thing we're actually going to say is the tokenizer as well.
And in order to do that we're going to use that pixel functionality.
So we're going to say this is a pickle file.
Now we're going to save in our tokenizer memory that tokenizer has information across the entire vocabulary
like word counts.
We'll need that later on though we don't get into tokenize text again so I'll say dump tokenizer.
And this is where you would make up a name for it tokenizer like my simple tokenizer and then say WB
here.
So what this does is it will automatically create a file for you called my simple tokenizer and then
write binary to it in order to dump this tokenizer object to that file.
Notice there's no extension there saying go ahead and run that as well and save it and now you successfully
train your model and then you save it as well as saved your tokenizer.
Coming up next we're going to show you how to generate new text.
We'll see it there.